# README
- A simple template for new .NET Entity Framework Core solutions.
- This is merely ONE example of how a solution directory might look like, so feel free to include, modify, or exclude files or folders to suit your application's needs.
  - NOTE: Each folder contains some dummy files which should be removed during development.

## Overview
```
📁 <solution>/
├──📁 artifacts/
├──📁 build/
├──📁 docs/
├──📁 examples/
├──📁 lib/
├──📁 packages/
├──📁 scripts/
├──🗂️ src/
│  ├╶╶📁 Controllers/
│  ├──📂 Data/
│  │  ├──📁 Migrations/
│  │  └──📄 ApplicationDbContext.cs
│  ├──📂 Models/
│  │  └──📄 EntityExample.cs
│  ├╶╶📁 Services/
│  ├──📂 Views/
│  │  └╶╶🌐 wwwroot
│  ├──⚙️ .env
│  ├╶╶⚙️ appsettings.json
│  ├╶╶📄 Program.cs
│  ├╶╶📄 <project>.csproj.user
│  └╶╶📄 <project>.csproj
├──📁 tests/
├──⚙️ .editorconfig
├──⚙️ .gitattributes
├──⚙️ .gitignore
├╶╶⚙️ global.json
├──📄 LICENSE
├──⚙️ nuget.config
├──⚙️ package.json
├──⚙️ package-lock.json
├──📄 README.md
└──💻 <solution>.sln/.slnx
```


- **`artifacts/`**
	- Build outputs generated by `build.cmd` or `build.sh` go in here.
		- `.nupkgs`, `.dlls`, `.pdbs`, etc.
	- This directory should always be included to the `.gitignore` file.

- **`build/`**
	- Build customisation files are stored here.

- **`docs/` (optional)**
	- Contains documentations, diagrams and other helper files that is specific to this application.
		- Documentations for `deploy/`, `lib/` or `packages/` files should NOT be moved here. Keep them in their respective directories.

- **`examples/` (optional)**
	- Use this directory to store demonstrations and tutorials of the application features.

- **`lib/` (optional)**
	- This directory stores any non-3rd party dependencies that are not tightly coupled with the `src/` production code.
		- i.e. components, class libraries, etc.

- **`packages/` (optional)**
	- NuGet packages, npm packages, and other 3rd party dependencies are stored here.

- **`src/`**
   - This directory stores the actual production code.
   	- **`Data`**: Stores Migration folder and the DbContext classes.
   	- **`Models`**: Stores entity models (i.e. object representation of SQL tables).
   	- **`Services`**: 
   	- **`View`**: Stores UI, presentation logic, and static assets like `.css` and `.js`.
	- When working with multiple projects in one solution, you should reorganise them by layer instead of projects to avoid spaghetti code.

```
├─📂 src/
│  ├──🗂️ Client/                    # Client side logic, views, and the code that calls
│  │  ├──📂 Views/                  # API endpoints
│  │  └──📄 Client.csproj
│  │
│  ├──🗂️ Server/                    # Store all endpoint routing and backend services here
│  │  ├──📂 Data/                   # As well as access to database
│  │  │  ├──📂 Migrations/
│  │  │  └──📄ApplicationDbContext.cs
│  │  ├──📂 Services/
│  │  ├──📄 Program.cs
│  │  └──📄 Server.csproj
│  │
│  └──🗂️ Shared/                    # Anything that is shared between client and server
│     ├──📁 Dto/                    # e.g. Models, DTOs
│     ├──📁 Models/                 # Avoid storing any services or business logic
│     └──📄 Shared.csproj           # 
```

- **`scripts/` (optional)**
  - This directory stores scripts for installations, analysis and operations.
    - These scripts can be combined with `Makefile` at the root level.

- **`tests/` (optional)**
  - Used for storing application testing.

- **`.editorconfig`**
  - Sets a standard coding style for every IDE and code editor (e.g. Visual Studio, Visual Studio Code) in this solution.
    - This overrides user-specific settings which helps maintaining a consistent style.
	 - [Link](https://editorconfig.org/) to EditorConfig documentation.

- **`.gitattributes`**
  - Configures how files should be handled by _git_ in this solution.
    - Such as if they should be store in binary or whether pressing the Enter key will create a LF or a CRLF character in a file.

- **`.gitignore`**
  - Sets which files are to be excluded from being tracked and commited by _git_ in this solution.
    - Very useful for hiding sensitive files.

- **`global.json` (optional)**
  - Sets which .NET SDK version is used when you run .NET CLI commands.
    - Exclude `global.json` if you only want the latest release.

- **`LICENSE`(optional)**
  - Your application's license. 

- **`nuget.config`**
  - Sets how this solution manages NuGet packages and ensures every user have the same NuGet settings.

- **`package.json` & `package-lock.json`**
  - Sets how this solution manages npm packages and ensures every user have the same npm settings.

- **`README`**
  - This README should contain an overview of the solution's 
    - If you want the README to go into detail about a specific part of the solution, you should instead create a detailed README in that directory.

- **`.sln` / `.slnx`**
  - The `.sln` / `.slnx` file is useful for opening the solution in Visual Studio, but it is technically not critical for the application.

- **`.env`**
  - Used to separate sensitive data (e.g. passwords, API keys, connection strings) from the rest of your code.
  	 - This means it should always be included in the `.gitignore` file.
  - If a `.env` file exists in current directory, the default environment will be read from it.
    - Key/value syntax: `API_PASSWORD=12345`
	 - Return value in C#: `Environment.GetVariable("API_PASSWORD")`
  - [.env documentations](https://www.dotenv.org/docs/security/env.html).
  
- **`appsettings.json`**
  - Works similar to `.env` as a way to store data that should not be tracked by _git_.
    - Can be overridden by `appsettings.Development.json` or `appsettings.Production.json` if **Project > Properties > Debug > Environment Variables:** is set to **Development** or **Production** respectively.

## Sources
- Common web application architectures: [learn.microsoft.com](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/architecture/modern-web-apps-azure/common-web-application-architectures)
- David Fowl: [dotnetlayout.md](https://gist.github.com/davidfowl/ed7564297c61fe9ab814)
- Golang-standards: [project-layout](https://github.com/golang-standards/project-layout)
- Ortiz David: [backed-project-structure](https://github.com/ortizdavid/backend-project-structure)
- dotnet-template: [project-layout](https://github.com/dotnet-template/project-layout/tree/main)